README.md, before:

# GitLab Pipeline Action

With this action, you can run your pipelines on GitLab for your GitHub project.

This action takes care of the following things:

- Pushing the relevant code to GitLab
- Starting a pipeline on the relevant code
- Hosting a GitLab Runner
- Waiting for the GitLab pipeline to finish
- Removing the code from GitLab after the pipeline finished
- Failing the workflow if the GitLab pipeline did not complete successful.

## Setup

### Preparation

1. Create a project on GitLab [[Create project](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/#create-a-blank-project)]
2. Create a personal access token and save it in the secrets on GitHub (A group or project access token also works)
   [[Create personal access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#create-a-personal-access-token)]
   [[Create a secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#creating-secrets-for-a-repository)]
3. Create a runner and save the runner token in the secrets on GitHub (this step can be skipped if you want to use shared runners)
   [[Create runner](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/runners/runners_scope.html#create-a-project-runner-with-a-runner-authentication-token)]
   [[Create a secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#creating-secrets-for-a-repository)]

### Setup Action

Create a workflow with the following content.

Replace `<project-id>` with the ID of the project you created in step one.
The snippet assumes that the secret from step 2 and 3 were created with the name `GL_API_TOKEN` and `GL_RUNNER_TOKEN`.

If your project is hosted on gitlab.com, you can omit the `GL_SERVER_URL` configuration.

```yaml
name: GitLab

on:
  push:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  pipeline:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: Taucher2003/GitLab-Pipeline-Action@<version>
        name: Run pipeline
        with:
          GL_SERVER_URL: https://gitlab.com
          GL_PROJECT_ID: '<project-id>'
          GL_RUNNER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_RUNNER_TOKEN }}
          GL_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_API_TOKEN }}
```

## Pass variables to the GitLab Pipeline

You can define variables that should be passed to the GitLab pipeline.

Every environment variable starting with `GLPA_` will be passed to the GitLab pipeline
with the `GLPA_` prefix removed.

<details>
<summary>Example with variable</summary>

With this setup, the `GITHUB_TOKEN` is available in the GitLab pipeline.
It is accessible in the GitLab pipeline with `$GITHUB_TOKEN`, because the `GLPA_`
prefix is stripped before passing it to GitLab.

```yaml
name: GitLab

on:
  push:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  pipeline:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: Taucher2003/GitLab-Pipeline-Action@<version>
        name: Run pipeline
        with:
          GL_SERVER_URL: https://gitlab.com
          GL_PROJECT_ID: '<project-id>'
          GL_RUNNER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_RUNNER_TOKEN }}
          GL_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_API_TOKEN }}
        env:
          GLPA_GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

</details>

## Known issues

GitHub does not pass secrets to actions triggered by pull requests from forks.
This causes the `GL_API_TOKEN` and `GL_RUNNER_TOKEN` to be empty when triggered from a fork.

The action will fail in this case as the `GL_API_TOKEN` is required.

Commit message:

Add Job logs to action output

README.md, after:

# GitLab Pipeline Action

With this action, you can run your pipelines on GitLab for your GitHub project.

This action takes care of the following things:

- Pushing the relevant code to GitLab
- Starting a pipeline on the relevant code
- Hosting a GitLab Runner
- Waiting for the GitLab pipeline to finish
- Removing the code from GitLab after the pipeline finished
- Failing the workflow if the GitLab pipeline did not complete successful.

## Setup

### Preparation

1. Create a project on GitLab [[Create project](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/#create-a-blank-project)]
2. Create a personal access token and save it in the secrets on GitHub (A group or project access token also works)
   [[Create personal access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#create-a-personal-access-token)]
   [[Create a secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#creating-secrets-for-a-repository)]
3. Create a runner and save the runner token in the secrets on GitHub (this step can be skipped if you want to use shared runners)
   [[Create runner](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/runners/runners_scope.html#create-a-project-runner-with-a-runner-authentication-token)]
   [[Create a secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#creating-secrets-for-a-repository)]

### Setup Action

Create a workflow with the following content.

Replace `<project-id>` with the ID of the project you created in step one.
The snippet assumes that the secret from step 2 and 3 were created with the name `GL_API_TOKEN` and `GL_RUNNER_TOKEN`.

If your project is hosted on gitlab.com, you can omit the `GL_SERVER_URL` configuration.

```yaml
name: GitLab

on:
  push:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  pipeline:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: Taucher2003/GitLab-Pipeline-Action@<version>
        name: Run pipeline
        with:
          GL_SERVER_URL: https://gitlab.com
          GL_PROJECT_ID: '<project-id>'
          GL_RUNNER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_RUNNER_TOKEN }}
          GL_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_API_TOKEN }}
```

## Pass variables to the GitLab Pipeline

You can define variables that should be passed to the GitLab pipeline.

Every environment variable starting with `GLPA_` will be passed to the GitLab pipeline
with the `GLPA_` prefix removed.

<details>
<summary>Example with variable</summary>

With this setup, the `GITHUB_TOKEN` is available in the GitLab pipeline.
It is accessible in the GitLab pipeline with `$GITHUB_TOKEN`, because the `GLPA_`
prefix is stripped before passing it to GitLab.

```yaml
name: GitLab

on:
  push:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  pipeline:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: Taucher2003/GitLab-Pipeline-Action@<version>
        name: Run pipeline
        with:
          GL_SERVER_URL: https://gitlab.com
          GL_PROJECT_ID: '<project-id>'
          GL_RUNNER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_RUNNER_TOKEN }}
          GL_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GL_API_TOKEN }}
        env:
          GLPA_GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

</details>

## Show job logs

By adding the `SHOW_JOB_LOGS` to the input section (`with`), you can show the job logs
from the GitLab pipeline in the output of the GitHub Action Run.

Available options are `none`, `failures` and `all`. \
When using `none` or not specifying the option, no job logs will be shown. \
With `failures`, the job logs of failed jobs will be shown. \
`all` shows the job log of all jobs in the pipeline.

## Known issues

GitHub does not pass secrets to actions triggered by pull requests from forks.
This causes the `GL_API_TOKEN` and `GL_RUNNER_TOKEN` to be empty when triggered from a fork.

The action will fail in this case as the `GL_API_TOKEN` is required.
